I noticed one thing while playing this back.
If we take a look at the foot here and we scroll forward we see its contact and with the heel it's flat
it's flat then it turns up it's still on the toe and then it's up.
Whereas if we take a look at this foot right here I noticed this foot has the contact it's flat and
then it pulls up and and then it's up on the toe for these two frames as well but right here it still
pulls up and I feel like I should probably fix that.
So to do that what I'm going to do is just select this guy right here and let's press Alt ah and see
how that works and we go yeah.
And that adds a key frame there as well.
So now let's go back.
Here we go.
Contact flat on the ground flat on the ground on the toe and up on the toe.
Yep there we go.
So that's all that needed to happen there.
And now that I've done this let's go ahead and save the file and go to a file save copy and I'll put
that in my exports.
Here's that player run I'll go ahead and write over that there.
OK so now we've got it ready to go for the jump.
Once again I'm going to delete all of these down here.
I'll hover over the timeline down in the dope sheet and press the A key and I'll just delete all of
these.
Hit delete and delete key frames.
And there we go.
Now on frame one I'll select everything in post mode and then press Alt are all g to bring him back
to his default t pose there.
Now for the jump one I want for this.
I think what I want is kind of a Super Mario type thing with one leg forward and one arm forward.
At least that's how I picture him in my head.
That's actually what he's doing or not I don't know but that's what I want is kind of a as if he's leaping
over a hurdle or or or something like that.
Now we're probably gonna need more key frames here.
I'm not exactly sure how many we're gonna need.
Let's take it up to 48 frames.
Just to give us two seconds let's do that.
I'll once again work on the body first and then we'll take a look at the face.
I think I do know that I want his arms down something to go ahead and select the shoulder controls here
and get the arc key and turn these down like that and I'm not going to worry about him moving up in
the z axis.
I'm just going to move the arms and the legs.
Once we get to unity we're gonna script a force upward to make him jump.
So we don't need to apply that force here or move him at all.
All we need to do is just animate the arms and legs.
So from here let's just move up to.
I don't know frame twenty four one second.
Let's see how this works and what I'll do is I'll just come around to this side with the right arm selected
and I'll just spin that up like that I'll go round to the other side and let's spin this one back like
this let's grab a leg.
Here we go.
So if this arm is back then this leg should be forward like this.
Right let's do that and this leg should go back and hit the Aki and rotate like this something like
that.
He's kind of jumping up like that now also I feel like I want to turn some of the torso controls so
maybe maybe he If we tilt this way then I can begin kind of arching the back like this and then maybe
grab that head bone here and turn it down a bit.
So he's still looking forward.
Let's see how that works.
OK.
That's not too bad.
I think I want to maybe move that head back a little bit.
They're like this.
So he's kind of jumping up like that.
All right.
Let's see how that works.
So now if we grab this cursor on the timeline with the right mouse button and scroll back it kind of
goes like that.
Now let me take all of these.
I'm going to click the top key frame here to select that whole column and I'll press shift D and move
these down like that.
Now let's hit play and see about the timing really bad.
OK.
So you can kind of see where I'm going here but we need more snap more energy to it.
It's kind of the laziest jump I've ever seen.
OK.
So clearly I don't think we're going to need two whole seconds for this.
So let's take this column of key frames and hit the G key and move these back like this.
And let's take this and move these in like this.
So we've got it.
Let's have it all happen in about one second so I'll change my in time to 24.
Let's try this.
All right I'll hit that spacebar OK.
So a little better.
Now let's take this row of key frames and move it back to say frame eight and then let's duplicate these
with shift D and move these out too.
I don't know 16 or or 18.
Let's try 17.
How about that.
Let's hit the spacebar
OK.
So he's jumping and then he's holding it's not too bad.
I feel like it needs to be a little bit longer.
Let's grab these and move these to frame.
Thirty two let's border select all of these with the B key and move these into the center.
And what I'm gonna do now is I'm going to grab this column and this column and move them out a bit.
Let's change our frame range here back to 32.
At that base bar
feels a little better.
OK.
But I think right in here where would that be say on 16.
Feel like I need something to happen here like a little bit of an extreme or something.
So if we hit play he kind of holds and I'd kind of like him to move a little bit there while he's holding.
So somewhere around 16 I think what I'm gonna do is just push everything a little bit more just make
everything a little bit more extreme so pull that back
maybe pull this board just everything's gonna push just a bit out and up and back and rotate out.
Maybe he can even
arch that back a little bit more.
Just see how that works.
I'm not sure let's give it a try
that might just work.
So that's 32 frames and you gotta try and imagine him kind of shooting up into the air as he does this.
In fact I may even need it to pop quicker.
Here let me take this column of key frames and move them back maybe to frame for.
Let's see how this works shift arrow to go back at that spacebar
that feels a little bit snappier
All right.
That's not too bad.
I feel like it may be going on a little bit too long still so maybe I'm going to take all of these and
let's move them to G and let's move them back to here so this in frame is at frame 30 let's hit let's
change the frame range back to 30 at that spacebar.
I feel like that's getting there.
You know you kind of springs and then it comes back down
this is kind of a tough one because we may actually need to get it into unity before we see exactly
how this is going to work and then come back here.
But I don't know I feel like that might just work
I guess what we should do is go ahead and work on the face animation in the next video.
So we'll do that.
Coming up next.